---
layout: single
title: 
date: 2014-07-13 22:15
author: oprie
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
It's been over two months since my last entry, owing almost entirely to my own laziness.

Algonquin Provincial Park is over seven thousand kilometres squared and is predominantly comprised of dense woodland, marshes and lakes. There are somewhat civilised campsites dotted at points around the park; the one we stayed at was on the edges of Pog Lake, and for forty dollars a night we were granted a plot of land, a picnic bench and a fire pit.

Upon entering the park, there are unavoidable warning signs and frequent reminders from rangers that you are entering 'Black Bear Country', along with handy pamphlets detailing, with terrifying nonchalance, the different types of bear encounters, and how to deal with them. 

<em>In some cases, bears become accustomed to human contact and thus are predatory; a predatory black bear often stalks it's prey silently from a distance, assessing whether it is safe to attack.</em>

Thankfully, predatory black bears are rare, and most are more likely to be of the Yogi variety; whose only real interest in campers is their cool box, whilst they remain paralysed with fear, cameras in hand. As a preventive measure, it's necessary to wrap all food, drinks, cosmetics and anything else that may smell of food, and hoist it at least four meters into the air. This is a novelty at first, but quickly becomes tiresome, when to snack on marshmallows requires an awkward twenty minute routine. 

Since Algonquin is home to literally thousands of lakes, most of which are interconnected, it only seemed suitable to take advantage of a canoe rental whilst in the park. With very little maritime or seafaring experience, we were given a canoe, some paddles and life jackets and a word of warning; 'you probably don't wanna paddle over that there dam'. 

We managed to avoid the dam, and after portaging at a nearby beach, I perceived a much more immediate threat; the dull, looming figure of a snapping turtle, it's dead eyes looking right into my own. His face, completely lacking any telltale signs of emotion, was poking out of the water at intervals as he silently approached.
